# 🧩 Challenge

## 📌 Basic Info
- **Name**: abc
- **Platform**: LKS Kota Semarang 2026
- **Category**: Cryptography
- **Difficulty**: -
- **Points**: -

---

## 📖 Description
-

---

## 🔗 Resources
- Link: -
- File: [chall.py](chall.py)

---

## 🎯 Objective
- Find the flag hidden in the encryption scheme.

---

# 🧠 Solution

## 🔍 Analysis
Through debugging on [debug.py](debug.py), we can see that the encryption scheme is a stream cipher that generates a keystream based on the initial key. The keystream is generated by repeatedly applying a transformation to the internal state. We can recover partial key (first 4 bytes), and for the last byte, we can brute-force it since the key length is only 5 bytes.
```
key = b'\xd1TK\xb7\xfb'
self.vals = [209, 84, 75, 183, 251]
self.vals = [251, 209, 84, 75, 183]
self.vals = [183, 251, 209, 84, 75]
self.vals = [75, 183, 251, 209, 84]
keystream = [209, 84, 75, 183, 251, 251, 209, 84, 75, 183, 183, 251, 209, 84, 75, 75, 183, 251, 209, 84]
ct = '9d1f18cc8f9ea22022d9d0a4b7382a2cca'
True
```

---

## 🛠️ Approach
1. The whole key length is 5 bytes, but we can recover the first 4 bytes by xoring the first 4 bytes of the ciphertext with the first known 4 bytes of the plaintext (which is "LKS{").
2. For the last byte of the key, we can brute-force it since there are only 256 possible values (0-255).
3. Try every combination of `partial_key + last_byte` and check if the generated keystream can decrypt (in this case is xoring) a valid plaintext that starts with "LKS{" and ends with "}".

---

## 💻 Exploit / Code
[solver.py](solver.py)

---

## 🚩 Flag
LKS{cf3d130204238f30d62cadd24f371a8e}

---

## 📚 Lessons Learned
- Understanding the encryption scheme is crucial in solving cryptography challenges. By analyzing the code and the generated keystream, we can recover parts of the key and use brute-force for the remaining unknown parts.

---

## 🧷 Notes
- The key length is only 5 bytes, which makes brute-forcing the last byte feasible.